Object Oriented Programming
Encapsulation

What is encapsulation? Well, in a nutshell, encapsulation is the
hiding of data implementation by restricting access to accessors and
mutators. First, lets define accessors and mutators:

Accessor
An accessor is a method that is used to ask an object about itself. In
OOP, these are usually in the form of properties, which have, under
normal conditions, a get method, which is an accessor method.
However, accessor methods are not restricted to properties and can be
any public method that gives information about the state of the object.

Abstraction

Data abstraction is the simplest of principles to understand. Data
abstraction and encapuslation are closely tied together, because a
simple definition of data abstraction is the development of classes,
objects, types in terms of their interfaces and functionality, instead
of their implementation details. Abstraction denotes a model, a view,
or some other focused representation for an actual item. Its the
development of a software object to represent an object we can find in
the real world. Encapsulation hides the details of that implementation.

Abstraction
is used to manage complexity. Software developers use abstraction to
decompose complex systems into smaller components. As development
progresss, programmers know the functionality they can expect from as
yet undeveloped subsystems. Thus, programmers are not burdened by
considering the waysin which the implementation of later subsystesm
will affect the design of earlier development.

Inheritance

Now lets discuss inheritance.  Objects can relate to eachother
with either a “has a”, “uses a” or an “is a” relationship.  “Is a”
is the inheritance way of object relationship.  The example of
this that has always stuck with me over the years is a library (I think
I may have read it in something Grady Booch wrote).  So, take a
library, for example.  A library lends more than just books, it
also lends magazines, audiocassettes and microfilm.  On some
level, all of these items can be treated the same: All four types
represent assets of the library that can be loaned out to people. 
However, even though the 4 types can be viewed as the same, they are
not identical.  A book has an ISBN and a magazine does not. 
And audiocassette has a play length and microfilm cannot be checked out
overnight.

Polymorphism

Polymorphism means one name, many forms.  Polymorphism
manifests itself by having multiple methods all with the same name, but
slighty different functionality.  Many VB6ers are familiar
with interface polymorphism.  I’m only going to discuss
polymorphism from the point of view of inheritance because this is the
part that is new to many people.  Because of this, it can be
difficult to fully grasp the full potential of polymorphism until you
get some practice with it and see exactly what happens under different
scenarios.  We’re only going to talk about polymorphism, like
the other topics, at the basic level. 

There are 2 basic types of polymorphism.  Overridding, also
called run-time polymorphism, and overloading, which is referred to as
compile-time polymorphism.  This difference is, for method
overloading, the compiler determines which method will be
executed, and this decision is made when the code gets compiled.
Which method will be used for method overriding is determined at
runtime based on the dynamic type of an object.



